readme.md, before:



# Redshirt's run

This game, inspired by Pacman (and Star Trek!) involves a player inside a maze, being chased by a group of characters (refered to here as 'enemies').


## General info on game-play

* There is one player, who starts with a score of zero. 
* The player has an avatar on the board, in a red shirt
* The player's avatar can be moved by the player using their arrow-up, arrow-down, arrow-left and arrow-right keyboard keys.
* The player cannot move outside of passageways, which contain the dots, and therefore remains within the bounds of the game board. However, the player can pass through a teleportation tunnel, positioned roughly at the center of the far left and right walls of the board. Entering the tunnel makes the player avatar appear on the opposite side of the board.
* Score increases as the player moves over dots on the game board, or moves over a pill (positioned at the four corners of the board), or collides with an enemy whose mode is in 'flee' (which occurs for a set period of time after the player landed on a pill)
* When the player collides with an enemy whose mode is 'flee', that enemy's position is re-set to the center of the board, after a short delay
* When the player collides with an enemy whose mode is not 'flee', game-play moves to a second board. On this second board, if/when the player again collides with an enemy not in 'flee' the player loses a life and is returned to the first board.
*The game is over when the player looses all three of their starting lives, or when the player reaches a specified winning score


## Enemy chase and flee modes

The Enemy class has a mode -- with a value of either 'chase', or 'flee' -- that determines how it behaves with respect to the player. Upon instantiation of an enemy is set to chase. The mode is changed to flee when the player lands on a pill on the board (the mode of each enemy then remains in 'flee' for a set period of time, before reverting to 'chase').

### character behaviour in different modes

The flee/chase modes alter the enemy behaviour:  

* If a player collides with an enemy that has a mode of 'flee', the enemy will disappear from its current position and its position will be re-set to the center of the board (where the enemy will appear a short time later). Such a collision also results in an additional score being awarded to the player.

* If a player collides with an enemy that is in 'chase' mode, a function (endGame) will be called to handle further game play, which could mean moving to a different board or completely ending the game, depending on other conditions (see also below).

* Whether an enemy is in flee or chase mode also alters its movement (see section on Enemy positioning and movement)



## Enemy positioning and movement

### Deciding a direction

Before each enemy makes a move, it will decide which direction to move.  

The Enemy class has a method, decideDirection that is repeatedly called (for each instantiated enemy) at intervals during gameplay. 

The decideDirection method calls other methods (checkRight, checkLeft, checkUp and checkDown) that allow an enemy to determine the coordinates of the cells immediately to the right, left, up and down, around its position. With this information, each enemy can determine whether the cell in question is a passageway (allowing movement), or a wall (dissalowing movement). The enemy also has its own x and y position properties, as well as a method to determine the player's current x-y position on the grid. Using this information, the enemy can determine whether any given cell immediately around it is closer or further from the player's position (in terms of a straight line drawn from enemy to player).

Conditions are also added in decideDirection to avoid enemies back-tracking during their movement. Specifically, enemies have a property (lastMove) that stores information about their previous move. This is then used when deciding which move should be made next.

Before each move, each enemy iterates through directions (right, left, up or down - also taking into acount its last move, as described above), and using a simple sum of x and y grid cell coordinates, along with knowledge of the player's current cell coordinates, sorts the possible moves into an order of desired movement. 

#### Movement behaviour depending on mode
When the enemy is in 'chase' mode, the sorting order results in the first move to try (the most desirable move) being that which will minimise the straight-line distance to the player position. If there are two or more potential moves that offer equal reduction in distance to the player, a random choice is made between these desired moves.

Conversely, when the enemy is in 'flee' mode (after the player has landed on one of the pills on the board), the movement sorting order is reversed: the first move that the enemy will try is the move that will result in the greatest possible increase in straight-line distance from the player's current position.

Now with a desired order of movement, the enemy will assess whether it is possible to move in each direction. The enemy will try (in the order of sorting, as described above) to move in each direction until it is able to successfully make a move (until its x and y position properties change). If for any reason the enemy is unable to find a direction to successfully move in (which may very occassionally be the case if the enemy is in a corner), we simply return out of the method and await a new call to decideDirection.

### Movement timing
decideDirection (and thereby, enemy movement) is called at slightly different rates for different enemy instances in chase mode. Doing this means that over time enemies spread out across the board, thus providing more interesting gameplay.


##  mode changes
The enemy's mode changes when the player lands on a pill on the board.
When this happens, a function, bigDogTriggerFlee is called. This function clears all timers (intervals) associated with enemy movement. It then sets all instantiated enemys' modes to 'flee', after which another function is called which re-starts game play, with appropriate timings and behavior (fleeing) for each enemy. After a few seconds, all movement timers are again cleared, enemy modes are re-set to 'chase' and new timers (intervals) are called to once again decide movement with enemies in chase mode.

## Collision detection

## Game-play pause and end points
When any collision is detected between the player and an enemy instance not in 'flee' mode, a function endGame is called. This endGame function is also called if the player reaches the winning score (stored in the constant winScore). 

endGame clears all intervals that have been set during the previous game. If the winning score has not been reached

On the first game board, when the player collides with an enemy whose mode is not 'flee', game-play moves to a second board.

Commit message:

fixed problem with slide-in infringing on game over screen

readme.md, after:



# Redshirt's run

This game, inspired by Pacman (and Star Trek!) involves a player inside a maze, being chased by a group of characters (refered to here as 'enemies').


## General info on game-play

* There is one player, who starts with a score of zero. 
* The player has an avatar on the board, in a red shirt
* The player's avatar can be moved by the player using their arrow-up, arrow-down, arrow-left and arrow-right keyboard keys.
* The player cannot move outside of passageways, which contain the dots, and therefore remains within the bounds of the game board. However, the player can pass through a teleportation tunnel, positioned roughly at the center of the far left and right walls of the board. Entering the tunnel makes the player avatar appear on the opposite side of the board.
* Score increases as the player moves over dots on the game board, or moves over a pill (positioned at the four corners of the board), or collides with an enemy whose mode is in 'flee' (which occurs for a set period of time after the player landed on a pill)
* When the player collides with an enemy whose mode is 'flee', that enemy's position is re-set to the center of the board, after a short delay
* When the player collides with an enemy whose mode is not 'flee', game-play moves to a second board. On this second board, if/when the player again collides with an enemy not in 'flee' the player loses a life and is returned to the first board.
*The game is over when the player looses all three of their starting lives, or when the player reaches a specified winning score


## Enemy chase and flee modes

The Enemy class has a mode -- with a value of either 'chase', or 'flee' -- that determines how it behaves with respect to the player. Upon instantiation of an enemy is set to chase. The mode is changed to flee when the player lands on a pill on the board (the mode of each enemy then remains in 'flee' for a set period of time, before reverting to 'chase').

### character behaviour in different modes

The flee/chase modes alter the enemy behaviour:  

* If a player collides with an enemy that has a mode of 'flee', the enemy will disappear from its current position and its position will be re-set to the center of the board (where the enemy will appear a short time later). Such a collision also results in an additional score being awarded to the player.

* If a player collides with an enemy that is in 'chase' mode, a function (endGame) will be called to handle further game play, which could mean moving to a different board or completely ending the game, depending on other conditions (see also below).

* Whether an enemy is in flee or chase mode also alters its movement (see section on Enemy positioning and movement)



## Enemy positioning and movement

### Deciding a direction

Before each enemy makes a move, it will decide which direction to move.  

The Enemy class has a method, decideDirection that is repeatedly called (for each instantiated enemy) at intervals during gameplay. 

The decideDirection method calls other methods (checkRight, checkLeft, checkUp and checkDown) that allow an enemy to determine the coordinates of the cells immediately to the right, left, up and down, around its position. With this information, each enemy can determine whether the cell in question is a passageway (allowing movement), or a wall (dissalowing movement). The enemy also has its own x and y position properties, as well as a method to determine the player's current x-y position on the grid. Using this information, the enemy can determine whether any given cell immediately around it is closer or further from the player's position (in terms of a straight line drawn from enemy to player).

Conditions are also added in decideDirection to avoid enemies back-tracking during their movement. Specifically, enemies have a property (lastMove) that stores information about their previous move. This is then used when deciding which move should be made next.

Before each move, each enemy iterates through directions (right, left, up or down - also taking into acount its last move, as described above), and using a simple sum of x and y grid cell coordinates, along with knowledge of the player's current cell coordinates, sorts the possible moves into an order of desired movement. 

#### Movement behaviour depending on mode
When the enemy is in 'chase' mode, the sorting order results in the first move to try (the most desirable move) being that which will minimise the straight-line distance to the player position. If there are two or more potential moves that offer equal reduction in distance to the player, a random choice is made between these desired moves.

Conversely, when the enemy is in 'flee' mode (after the player has landed on one of the pills on the board), the movement sorting order is reversed: the first move that the enemy will try is the move that will result in the greatest possible increase in straight-line distance from the player's current position.

Now with a desired order of movement, the enemy will assess whether it is possible to move in each direction. The enemy will try (in the order of sorting, as described above) to move in each direction until it is able to successfully make a move (until its x and y position properties change). If for any reason the enemy is unable to find a direction to successfully move in (which may very occassionally be the case if the enemy is in a corner), we simply return out of the method and await a new call to decideDirection.

### Movement timing
decideDirection (and thereby, enemy movement) is called at slightly different rates for different enemy instances in chase mode. Doing this means that over time enemies spread out across the board, thus providing more interesting gameplay.


##  mode changes
The enemy's mode changes when the player lands on a pill on the board.
When this happens, a function, bigDogTriggerFlee is called. This function clears all timers (intervals) associated with enemy movement. It then sets all instantiated enemys' modes to 'flee', after which another function is called which re-starts game play, with appropriate timings and behavior (fleeing) for each enemy. After a few seconds, all movement timers are again cleared, enemy modes are re-set to 'chase' and new timers (intervals) are called to once again decide movement with enemies in chase mode.

## Collision detection

## Game-play pause and end points
When any collision is detected between the player and an enemy instance not in 'flee' mode, a function endGame is called. This endGame function is also called if the player reaches the winning score (stored in the constant winScore). 

endGame clears all intervals that have been set during the previous game. If the winning score has not been reached, the function checks which board the play is currently on:
*  If play is on board two, the player loses a life. If player lives are subsequently equal to zero, then another function is run to display a game-over message and final score. Alternatively, if player lives remain above zero, a message is displayed indicating to the player that they have lost a life and will switch boards. 
*  

On the first game board, when the player collides with an enemy whose mode is not 'flee', game-play moves to a second board.
